# Predicting Student's Answers To Unseen Diagnostic Questions
In the first part of this project, we implemented and applied various machine learning algorithms to predict students’ correctness of a given diagnostic question. 

In the second part of this project, we modified one of the algorithms we implemented in the first part to hopefully predict students’ answers to the diagnostic question with higher accuracy. In particular, we considered the results obtained in the first part, reasoned about what factors are limiting the performance of one of the models and came up with a proposed modification to the algorithm which would help address this problem. We rigorously tested the performance of our modified algorithm, and have summarized our results in the attached report. 

Specifically, we have chosen to modify the k-Nearest Neighbors algorithm to hopefully predict students’ answers to the diagnostic questions with higher accuracy. From the previous part, we learnt that the major limiting factor in the performance of the k-Nearest Neighbors algorithm was the curse of dimensionality. For both user-based collaborative filtering and item-based collaborative filtering, we see that we are working with 1774 and 542 dimensions, respectively. We know that the effectiveness of the k-Nearest Neighbors algorithm decreases with higher dimensions, as in high dimensions most points are considered to be far apart and equidistant from each other. Therefore, the concept of ”nearest neighbors” is lost as even the closest neighbor, in terms of Euclidean distance, may seem far away from the input data point being considered and hence each neighbor may seem equidistant. 

Therefore, a proposed modification to help address this problem is to change the distance metric that is being used. So far we had been using the Euclidean distance metric to determine the distance between a data point and its neighbor. However, given the curse of dimensionality, we changed this and used the Hamming distance metric instead as it is a distance metric that is preferable for higher dimensions.

